Now profiles are probably one of the most powerful features of the Spring Framework.
What profiles will allow you to do is to have beans in your configuration that will take on different
characteristics.
We've talked about like data sources so by default when you have an H2 In-memory database on your class
paths, Spring Boot automatically configures that.
But what if you wanted to have MySQL capabilities as well so you might want to run a profile
for MySQL. In your development environment, you're using H2. In your production environment,
you are using MySQL.
But you are controlling the MySQL specific beans with a profile.
So the profiles are very very powerful thing and probably one of the most commonly used features of
Dependency Injection inside the Spring Framework.
Because these profiles allow you to control your Spring application in different runtime environments.
So very very very powerful stuff here.
I'm going to show you a very simple example.
Just get our feet wet with profiles, we will be seeing profiles used a lot more as we get deeper into
the course.
But here we are just going to do a very simple example.
Just so you can understand effectively how profiles allow your Spring project to behave differently.
So remember going back to that whole inversion control that the Spring container gives us that inversion
control is now going to have the capability of a profile and you can set a profile and then using inversion
control container and Spring Framework it's going to wire up your application differently depending
on the active profiles.
Let's go over to IntelliJ and we'll take a look at an example of a profile. Okay. I'm gonna set up a new
controller to show you this. I come in here and create a new controller.
And I'm going to call this i18N controller. So i18N is a common abbreviation for internationalization.
So internationalization begins with an I ends with N and 18 characters long.
So that's how we come up with that.
And I'm going to go ahead and use this just as an example.
We'll have the controller return back two different languages depending on the profile that we have
active.
So what we want to do is have this take in a greeting service.
So let's have this guy take in a greeting service. So we'll do a private final
greeting service like
so. Then we'll add in a constructor.
So Spring will wire this up and then let's do a little set greeting so we'll do public string
and we'll take that greeting service.
I'll make that say hello.
So there are different. Then where you have to annotate this as a controller
like so.
So now it's such as a little service up for a Spring to be a Spring managed component.
And it's going to be expecting to greet have a greeting service injected in.
So let's come up here and I'm going to create a new Java class
called i18N English service. Say greeting service just to be consistent.
That sets that guy up and then let's do one for Spanish as well.
And for English, we want to say
In Spanish I believe its Hola Mundo.
I have that right. I could be wrong my Spanish is nearly nonexistent. So my apologies if I have that wrong
and you are a Spanish speaker.
So what we want to do is say this is a service. Now I'm going to give this qualifier.
Gonna call it i18N service. We're going to do the
same for this.
This one too. So that i18N service now.
That's going to be the name of that.
And then in my controller here
I want to say a qualifier.
I just want to make sure I grab that right.
i18N service.
So now I run this, Spring's not gonna know which one we need to inject there.
So there's gonna be some question on that because there's two of them there. I got mistake in that.
So we want to see a return. Let's come down there and I'll show you the mistake right now. We'll come
up here and we'll add this towards the top.
So now if I run this, Spring is not gonna know which one to autowire in.
Because we have two of them to defined, both of them are at that name. We can see that we have
a conflict there.
So not compatible.
So we have two two beans of the same name and Spring's not too happy about that because they are both
available within this context.
So what we can do here is come up here and say
we'll do profile EN and this one we'll give profile
ES.
Now we do need to change one additional thing. I'm going to come into resources application.properties bring
profiles active and can see IntelliJ is smart enough to see that we've already declared EN and
ES.
So let's first look at EN.
Now let's go ahead and run this. Because we have an active profile,
what's going to happen is that because ES is not available we're not going to get that other bean
loaded into this context.
So you can see that it wired up hello world EN. You can see that right at the top of our output.
Now if I changes this to ES and run it again,
we can see that the Spanish flavor of the Bean was wired up.
So when I don't have an active profile, we can see that Spring is not happy about that because it doesn't
know which one we want. But as long as I set a profile active of EN or ES now Spring is able to determine
which bean to load into the context and because the other bean the one that isn't active that is a
name created into the context so there is no conflict.
So Spring will if the profile is not active, Spring will completely ignore those beans and not load them into
the context.
So just to recap what we did in this video I added in our internationalization controller which takes
a greeting service like everybody else does but when I have it having it take in a qualifier of a
i18N service. I added in two services with that and with the service annotation I'm naming it in the
i18 service and then one I set up a profile of EN and the other has profile of ES and then using
Spring active profiles.
That's how I'm controlling the Spring Context as to which one of these two beans gets loaded into
the context that runtime.